good morning everybody
it's my great pleasure to be here today
and I'd like to talk to you about
resilience this is a picture of my
grandmother my maternal grandmother
Nancy staples and she's leaning on the
gates at the end of our gardens and the
land that we worked two generations ago
my earliest childhood memories are of
her and my great grandmother and my
grandfather particularly this time of
the year trying to eke out every ounce
of nutritional value and economic value
from our gardens and from the land it
was a time to harvest but it was a time
to preserve to jam to pickle in any
shape way or form that nutritional value
so that we could take the bounty of the
summer and extend it for us our family
but also for the poorer members of the
community around through the winter
months she was born at the beginning of
one world war lived through a second and
survived polio she was tough and when I
think about resilience I think about her
her generosity her toughness and many
like her in that generation but let's
talk about resilience today
this is a picture of the hotel Montana
taken in port-au-prince Haiti just after
the devastating earthquake in 2010 as
you can see it pancaked killing 200
people or more as it did so it simply
wasn't built to resist the shock today
we have to be more concerned about
natural disasters than ever before in
the past 30 years the economic losses
from natural disasters have more than
tripled the number of national disasters
has actually doubled let's look at the
numbers over the past 30 years in
low-income and middle-income countries
alone we have lost 1.2 trillion dollars
due to damage that is equivalent to the
GDP annually of Mexico another way to
think of it is that it is equivalent to
a third
all of the official development
assistance that we've given in the same
time period so think that for every
three dollars of over resistance
overseas development aid that we've
given we've taken one and thrown it away
in the same period of same 30 years 2.3
million people have perished that's the
population of Namibia this is something
that we need to pay attention to and
it's getting more difficult climate
change is ravaging especially poor
countries already this is not a
phenomena for the future it's for us
today already countries are trying to
work their way through the complex nexus
between a food and crisis a water crisis
and an energy crisis and climate change
is just making it more difficult and
raising uncertainty at the same time
over the next 40 years we will add 2.6
billion people to the cities of the
world
most of that in developing countries in
fact 90% of that growth will be in South
Asia and Africa and between now and 2050
we will double the number of people
exposed to cyclones and mudslides and
collapse as a result of natural
disasters in urban settings - more than
1.5 billion people the lack of building
codes the lack of enforced building
codes will punish these people and it
will be the poor for it is always the
poor the most vulnerable that will
suffer most so think of the story that
we are beginning to understand we have
more and more disasters their intensity
is being developed by climate change
climate changes adding to uncertainty
and we have a path of urbanization that
this civilisation has never seen before
how do we invest in our resilience well
there are two key ways first of all we
actually have to change our growth path
we need to move to a greener and more
inclusive growth now every country can
start on that journey
we must mitigate and adapt to climate
change at the same time we need to
invest in disaster risk management
disaster risk management must be part of
development but it's also be considered
a first line of defense against the
uncertainty that is coming tomorrow we
need action in the public sector we need
frameworks in public policy we need
awareness and investment in the private
sector and we need civil society in
communities to engage now I talked to
you earlier on about the hotel in Haiti
the hotel Montana that a pancaked had
collapsed this is where we are today
this is the Westin in sentai a gorgeous
37 story hotel that survived the
catastrophic earthquake on March the
11th 2011 the great Japan earthquake
with almost no damage at all in fact it
served as a Disaster Response Center
disaster risk management is in the
building code in Japan disaster risk
management in the building code is
enforced in Japan disaster risk
management is part of the curricula in
schools in Japan and disaster risk
management not disaster is part of the
public discourse here in Japan so every
country every government can take steps
now no matter where they are on the
development trajectory to try to start
to invest in their own resilience but
there's much more that can be done by
the international community as well
often we offer too little too late
between 1980 and 2009 the international
community spent 90 billion u.s. dollars
on disaster related assistance but of
that 90 billion only 3.6 percent was
invested in prevention and preparedness
the other 96 percent plus was invested
in emergency response and reconstruction
we have to change those numbers we have
to switch that graph around in fact we
have to move from a tradition of
response to a culture of prevention a
culture of resilience but let me give
you an example of what does seem to
start working this is the island of st.
Lucia in the Caribbean a small island
developing state but it by storms and
hurricanes where landslides are
unfortunately far too often part of the
rhythm of life there in 2008 the World
Bank working with five communities on
the island started to try to invest in
the resilience of these communities and
their ability to withstand and to avoid
landslides and we built these hillside
drains in 2010 when Hurricane Tomas hit
the island unfortunately many
communities suffered the landslides that
so often part of the rhythm of life
there but the five communities where
these hillside drains had been built
suffered no losses at all it's important
to understand the economics of this
project as well for every dollar that
the community invested in these drains
it saved another three dollars that it
would have had to spend on response and
on reconstruction if they had not taken
the steps towards preparedness so if
disaster risk resilience seems to make
such good economic and business sense is
the private sector interested is the
private sector investing well the good
news is that leaders are this is a
picture of the port of Cartagena in
Colombia which is operated by a private
firm well as the Bosque on a long-term
government concession recently they
undertook a study together with the
International Finance Corporation the
private sector lending arm of the World
Bank where they looked at the risks to
the Port Arthur I operating environment
from changes in climate and changes in
weather pattern what was interesting is
that in order to get the data for the
report they had to go to 30 different
public and private sources
which shows that there's much to be done
to make the data and awareness of these
issues more available to public and
private sector alike but the report
resulted in recommendations from
changing the dredging regime for the way
that ships approached the port -
drainage - on site on side land
operations so for example changing the
heights of roads and things like this
and as a result of those recommendations
well as de boskie invested thirty
million dollars in new capital
construction in order to make them more
resilient in order to improve their and
to improve their operations going
forward so this port company was able to
see the benefit from investing in their
ability to be resilient going forward
and that this was a commercial advantage
to them so I've talked about the public
sector and I've talked about the private
sector and now we need to talk about
community we know empirically that
communities that have stronger social
bonds do better in disaster we know that
in fact those strong social bonds are
one of the strongest determinants of
resilience within the community I mean
it makes intuitive sense neighbors know
which neighbor needs help which neighbor
is vulnerable which neighbor is weakest
we also know that families neighbors and
friends are the ones that help
reconstruct first after disaster has hit
so when we think of resilience this is
not an adapt construct it's not it's not
an it's not a just a word that is thrown
around in development circles resilience
is both the need for Public Policy and
the need for private investment it's
also about a different response from the
international community and it is about
the local municipal leaders the mayors
that we elect to lead us through these
uncertain times but resilience very
importantly is about community I think
the people of Japan know that I think
that my grandmother her friends and
others in our community when I was
growing up
knew that too and so for me personally
when I think of resilience I think of
top-down policy and investment flows but
I think of bottom-up building of
community for me resilience is about you
and me and the bonds that bring us
together thank you